# This is the Online examination project

This web application provides a facility to conduct online examinations worldwide.
It saves time as it allows a number of participants to give the exam at a time and displays the results as the test gets over, so no need to wait for the result.
It is automatically generated by the server.

Administrator has a privilege to create, modify and delete the test papers and its particular questions.
User can register, login and give the test with his specific id, and can see the results as well
Tests may have different modules according to the need.
Test will have Multiple choice questions (MCQ) and Subjective questions as well.
It provides an easy to use environment for both Test Conductors and participants.

The main purpose of this online examination portal is to efficiently evaluate the participants thoroughly through a fully automated system that not only saves a lot of time but also gives faster results and saves paper.
It is a cost effective and popular means of mass-evaluation.
It is a subscription based system.
The examiner takes a subscription of the examination portal and based on that subscription number of participants are allowed to participate in the exam.
The examiner has the power to add modules and questions.
The participant can verify their identity with any government issue ID and after verification the participant will be allowed to give the exams.


## Intended Audience

Online examination portal mainly targets two types of audiences: Student, Organization, Enterprise, Tutor and Admin which will monitor activities on the platform.

## Installation Requirements

To run back-end Just `cd exam-api` then `yarn Install` and then `yarn run start:dev` in exam-api directory.

To run front-end (admin) `cd exam-app` and then `yarn Install` and Then `yarn dev` in exam-app directory.

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn install`

Install the required dependencies

### `yarn run start:dev` backend

Runs the app in the development mode.\
the server starts at [http://localhost:5000].

### `yarn dev` frontend

Runs the app in the development mode.\
the server starts at [http://localhost:3000].

### `npx prisma db push`

Introspects the database to infer and executes the changes required to make your database schema reflect the state of your Prisma schema.

## Technologies used in app

Frontend (exam-app) – Next Js, Tailwind CSS, Redux
Backend (exam-api) – Node, NestJs, MongoDB, Prisma
Deployment Tools & Techniques – Dockerize to run application
Linting & formatting – Eslint & Prettier (no console.log allowed but logger)
Package Manager – Yarn (will not use NPM)
Source Code Management Tools – GIT
These are the main language/libraries and tools required to compose applications.

NOTE: some other 3rd party libraries will be consumed to create projects based on needs.


## Api documentation

For api documentation we used swagger-ui-express that is available on [http://localhost:5000/api-docs]
